Double defending champion Kim le Court, of Mauritius, completed a hattrick of Cape Town Cycle Tour wins on Sunday, 12 March. The Efficient Infiniti Insure rider had to work harder for her fourth title than any of the others, though, after Candice Lill broke up a select group who had entered the finale together with an audacious attack in the final kilometre. Le Court and her fellow sprinters reeled Lill in before the winner outsprinted Vera Looser, Ashleigh Moolman-Pasio, Hayley Preen, and Cherise Willeit to take the 2023 title. Since 2018 the elite women have enjoyed their own start group and a race free of interference from the age group men. Starting in Fish Hoek, they complete 79 kilometres of the classic Cape Town Cycle Tour route, including the ascents of Smitswinkel, Chapmans Peak Drive, and Suikerbossie. A blustery South Easter affected the racing, which led to a bigger group staying together deeper into the race and regroupings later in the piece. “The wind, especially in the beginning, going towards Simons Town slowed the pace a bit,” Lill explained. “But once it gets into the rolling terrain, it was full gas!” As Lill pointed out, a block headwind on Smitswinkel allowed a larger group than usual to get over the first ascent in contact with the leaders. Catherine Colyn, riding for Moolman-Pasio’s Rocacorba Collective, did the bulk of the pace making but in the wheels behind her, riders were able to get swept along up the climb. On the descent to Scarborough, Emma Pallant-Browne and various riders from the Reach for Rainbows and Custom Cycling teams tried their luck, but nobody was able to establish a significant gap. By the foot of Chapmans Peak Drive, 40 women remained in contention. Moolman-Pasio shred the field into splintered groups on the famous climb. The 2012 winner was joined by Lill, Le Court, Preen, Willeit, and Pallant-Browne over the summit. The descent, which is a sweeping drag initially before steepening into Hout Bay, allowed S’aanara Grove, Looser, Melissa Kretzinger, Tiffany Keep, Jo van de Winkel, and a handful of others to make it back to the leaders before Suikerbossie kicked uphill once more. On Suikerbossie Moolman-Pasio attacked again, this time, only Preen, Lill, and Le Court could follow. Pallant-Browne was the best of the rest over the summit, 10 seconds behind the group. The British triathlete Grove, Willeit, and Van de Winkel then fought their way back to parity before the race reached Bakhoven. In Camps Bay, the group swelled once more, with Keep and two of Grove’s Rennen Racing teammates also making contact. This set the women up for a likely sprint finish. “This race is always good fun and games,” Lill smiled at the finish line. “I always find it’s very difficult to stay away after Suikerbossie, though. We had a good group going over there of four riders. But then the other women started to catch us, and it became a bit hectic towards the end. I tried a bit of a flier because I know I’m not much good in a sprint. So I’m proud of that move, even if it didn’t pay off.” Lill’s kick forced her rivals to open up their sprints earlier than they would have liked. “It was a bit tense, to be honest,” Le Court reflected. “With most of the sprinters back in the bunch, I was pretty nervous going into the finale. Then Candice [Lill] did a flier from the back, which was really a good move. We struggled to bring her back, and as I did, I thought it was too early to start the sprint. But everyone else was sprinting too, and I just opened it up, and no one came past. I could see a wheel looming up on my left… I know it was Vera [Looser] now. But I just hang on. And I’m really glad I could hang on to the end!” Le Court’s victory is her fourth in the Cape Town Cycle Tour, moving her to joint four alongside Anke Erlank on the all-time standings. The 2023 women’s winning time was 2 hours, 13 minutes, and 20 seconds. The top five were all awarded at the same time, with Looser placing second ahead of Moolman-Pasio, Preen, and Willeit. Women’s Results: Chris Jooste won the 2023 Cape Town Cycle Tour in emphatic fashion on Sunday, 12 March The TufoBMC rider showed his class to outsprint Andries Nigrini (TEG), Jaedon Terlouw (Honeycomb), and Daniel Loubser to claim the title in a time of 02:36:14. “This is the pinnacle of the sport in South Africa,” Jooste commented after the finish. “I’m thrilled with the win.” According to Jooste, he knew there was a rare chance for the breakaway to stay away when they managed to open the gap into a headwind. “With such strong riders in the break, things fell into place. I knew that if we kept up the speed and our confidence, victory would be ours.” The Men’s Elite racing category over the iconic 109km coastal route around the Cape Peninsula produced some intense and exciting moments. The weather on the day was ideal for racing, with sunny conditions and a light southeasterly breeze. The mint conditions made for a few characteristic early attacks, but all the big teams worked to bring it all back together. Up the deceptively tough Smitswinkel climb, five riders got off the front and forged the break. The five stayed together until Hout Bay when Nick James (DMS) dropped back. “That’s when the realisation kicked that we were going to go to the finish, and a podium was a potential,” said Andries Nigrini (TEG), who finished second behind Jooste. The breakaway didn’t always seem to work together in consistent fashion, with the youthful Loubser doing the bulk of the work. With no other teammates in the break, he seemed to forge something of an allegiance with Jooste, whose experience was evident throughout. Cape Town native and fourth-place finisher Daniel Loubser expressed his elation at completing the race unscathed, stating, “I am overjoyed to have had a smooth ride and crossed the finish line in one piece.” Loubser’s knowledge of the course proved invaluable to his fellow breakaway riders, as he was able to read the ever-changing conditions and offer crucial insights. He helps guide the four by sharing vital information about wind patterns and optimal feeding locations to help them maintain their lead. Loubser’s strategic advice undoubtedly played a key role in their success. The chasing bunch got organised up Chapman’s Peak, driven by DMS. They were closely watched by the team of Honeycomb, who were represented by Terlouw up front. In Honeycomb’s ranks was defending champion Marc Pritzen (although riding in the colours of his team Team EF Education-NIPPO Development). However, the bunch left it too late and couldn’t bring back the breakaway. “I kicked a bit too early,” commented third-placed Terlouw, explaining how he saw the main bunch coming back. “I got a bit nervous there and went out as hard as I could but couldn’t hold out. That was my first time in a breakaway, and I learned a lot,” he said. Speaking after the race, Jooste expressed his delight at what is undoubtedly the biggest win of his career. “This is an incredible feeling,” he said. “I’ve won every age category since u/12, so this is amazing.” The Cape Town Cycle Tour is one of the world’s most iconic cycling events, attracting thousands of participants and spectators each year. The Men’s Elite racing category is just one of the many highlights of the race, which also includes elite and age group categories for women, hand cyclists, and tandem riders. The event this year also debuted the inclusion of a 42km route. The event organizers expressed their satisfaction with the outcome of a cycling celebration, praising the participants for their skill and endurance. “The Cape Town Cycle Tour is a celebration of cycling and the human spirit,” said David Bellairs, the Director of the Cape Town Cycle Tour. “The Women’s and Men’s elite categories were a true testament to the passion and dedication of these athletes, and we are proud to have them as part of our event.”