The turtle stranding season for 2023 officially started with the arrival of two loggerhead hatchlings (Caretta caretta) at the Two Oceans Aquarium Foundation’s Turtle Conservation Centre. They were found stranded near Cape Point on Wednesday 22 February 2023 and brought to the Turtle Conservation Centre. The turtle team anticipate this to be the first of over one hundred turtle hatchlings that will find their way into their care this year. The rescue of the first two turtles of the 2023 stranding season marks the importance of the Turtle Rescue Network and the continued education and training of the public on what to do when they find a stranded turtle along our coastline. The Two Oceans Aquarium Foundation’s Turtle Conservation Centre team is taking up the call to get the message out there, as a team of ten passionate conservationists, educators and turtle lovers hit the road for their 6th annual Turtle Road Trip taking place from 26 February to 11 March 2023. This year, the education focus will be South Africa’s Overberg region – communities with members who will likely become the future lifesavers of stranded sea turtle hatchlings during the upcoming stranding season. This road trip would not be possible without the generous sponsorship of Aktionsgemeinschaft Artenschutz (AGA). With the growth of the Turtle Road Trip after 6 years of hitting the road, the turtle team has decided to split the education focus of turtle rescue into four targeted areas of the Western Cape. This year, the team is checking in at all the provincial network points and then heading to the Overberg region to focus on education and outreach. They will take a two-pronged approach, focused on building the Turtle Rescue Network and providing training to the partners in the first week, and providing outreach by visiting schools and organising public events in the second week. The main message they will be spreading is for those who come across a stranded turtle, to immediately contact the Turtle Rescue Hotline. From there a permitted official will jump into action and take the necessary steps to get the turtle to the Two Oceans Aquarium’s Turtle Conservation Centre. Turtle Network check -in and expansion The first contingent from the Turtle Conservation team set off for the Overberg on 16 February. Their aim is to strengthen the already existing turtle rescue network relationships and to build new partnerships on points on the coastline identified as not yet monitored by the turtle rescue network. They will be visiting Plettenberg Bay, Wilderness, Sedgefield and Mossel Bay where they will meet with partners such as NSRI, SanParks, Cape Nature, honourary rangers and Abalobi. They will give presentations, in partnership with Bayworld, and will find out what is needed from each touch point on the Turtle Network map. Where needed, the presentations will include a training element on what to do and who to contact if a turtle is found stranded on the coastline. Knowledge is key: Education initiative with schools Turtles are a keystone species for the well-being of the marine ecosystem, and all seven species are considered endangered, largely because of human-caused hazards such as plastic pollution and fishing nets. This year, the Turtle Rescue Programme team hopes to expand the number of people who are equipped with the knowledge needed to save the life of a stranded turtle hatchling immensely, by visiting over 34 schools, and bringing them fun, interactive lessons. The aim is to create future turtle rescuers who are inspired to take action should the need arise. Public events The of the aims of the turtle road trip is to connect with the public living along coastlines which experience turtle strandings annually. The team will be hosting two events which they welcome the public to attend. As part of a five-year plan, the Two Oceans Aquarium Foundation will roll out 10 informative signs located in strategic turtle stranding points along the coastal network. These signs include information on the different species of turtles that are found along the South African coastline, what to do if you find a turtle stranded on one of the beaches, and who to contact. The sign unveiling in Hermanus, sponsored by AGA (Aktionsgemeinschaft Artenschutz), will be the fourth sign completed, with the first three in Struisbaai, Arniston and De Hoop respectively. Please join our turtle team and the partners, Overstand Municipality and Cape Nature, on Thursday 9 March at 15h00 at Grotto Beach for the unveiling, to celebrate a vital turtle stranding awareness campaign, and to meet the team. They will be available to interact with the public and answer any marine conservation questions that come their way. The popular Saturday market in Hermanus is on everyone’s to-do list when visiting, where locals and tourists alike come together. The market is a fantastic place for the Two Oceans Aquarium Foundation to share its messaging of ocean conservation with the public as it is committed to being environmentally responsible. The market does not allow vendors to offer single use plastic bags, they encourage patrons to bring a cup from home for their beverages and aim to recycle 70% of their waste. If you are interested in what the Turtle Team are doing and want to meet the team in person, they will be at the Hermanus Country Market on Saturday 11 March. Be sure to get your picture taken with a Two Oceans Aquarium mascot and do your part to support ocean conservation by donating or purchasing merchandise that will be on offer.