The V&A Waterfront’s Cape Wheel is reopening after a seven month break to relocate it to a new location set to give passengers memorable new views of the city and Granger Bay, from stunning sunrises to sunsets and night-time and more. Easily one of the Waterfront’s most recognisable attractions, the Cape Wheel, which came into operation in 2008, has delighted international and local visitors, young and old alike, at its previous location between the Victoria Wharf Shopping Centre and the Union Castle Square in front of the kid’s playground and food court. Now located at the V&A’s Breakwater Boulevard overlooking the waters of Granger Bay, the wheel transforms Breakwater Boulevard into a new visitor attraction, with special elevated views across Granger Bay on one side, Robben Island in the distance, views of Table Mountain on the other end, as well as sights of Signal Hill and the Cape Town stadium. Riders will, from 40m up, have below them the sight of commercial shipping traffic with giant container ships coming and going, large cruise and charter boats heading in and out of the harbour, kayakers accompanied by schools of dolphins as well as the possibility of spotting the occasional whales that visit the bay from time to time. V&A Waterfront Chief Executive Officer, David Green said the time is right to restart the operation of the wheel, just ahead of the coming Easter holidays as part of the large package of exciting changes that have been part of the economic recovery of the Waterfront that were revealed ahead of the year-end festive season that the Waterfront. According to Green: “We had to find the perfect location for the wheel and I’m excited that we will be reopening the experience once more. I think our visitors will especially enjoy repeat visits to experience the different views to be experienced at this new location. “The recent signs of economic recovery for tourism and retail have been extremely positive and at the V&A Waterfront, we are looking forward to the return of the iconic Waterfront Wheel as part of our attractions which offer jobs and support livelihoods of so many Capetonians.” The new site, close to the Waterfront’s boardwalk, has easy access to the Breakwater parking garage, while also providing a more open and relaxed public space for visitors to access the wheel. Ticket sales open from 15 March. Information will be available on www.capewheel.co.za