Cape Town capped a stellar month of events by successfully hosting the Formula E, the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup final, the Ocean Race and the International Ice Hockey Federation Women’s Championship in one weekend. More than 50 000 people attended events in Cape Town this past weekend. The Women’s T20 World Cup final between host nation South Africa and Australia broke the record for the number of spectators at a women’s cricket match in South Africa. More than 13 000 people packed into the Newlands Cricket Ground on Sunday to witness Australia being crowned as the 2023 champions. The same day, over 6 000 people gathered at the V&A Waterfront for the last day of the Cape Town stopover of The Ocean Race. A 5 500-strong crowd jammed to the sound of Goodluck and Shekhinah at the popular Kirstenbosch Summer Sunset Concert on Sunday, 26 February 2023. The IIHF Ice Hockey Women’s Championship Division II Group B, which also concluded on Sunday, attracted thousands during its seven-day run. A day earlier on Saturday, 25 February 2023, Cape Town’s first ever Formula E attracted 25 903 spectators in the Green Point Precinct. Across town at Kenilworth Racecourse,  more than 3 000 people enjoyed a day of food, music and horseracing at the Cape Town Seafood and Jazz Festival. In the Southern Suburbs, 10 000 people turned up at Maynardville Park for the three-day Wynberg Family Festival. ‘We are blessed to have the infrastructure, the locations and City officials who are able to work hand-in-hand with event organisers to make these events happen. It is even more satisfying for us as the City, because our Events Department provided financial support or services to all the above events. ‘Coordinating these events simultaneously is no easy task, and the successful execution is testament to the expertise we possess here in Cape Town. We will ensure that municipal resources are properly coordinated to accommodate all approved events,’ said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security, Alderman JP Smith. While the event organisers are currently collating data on the economic impact – including the number of visitors in the city, accommodation and retail spend – early indications are that these events have provided a significant boost to the local economy. Cape Town is now gearing up for another month of exciting events including the Cape Town Cycle Tour, Cape Town Carnival, Cape Town Pride, DriftCity, Cape Town Fashion Week, ABSA Cape Epic, Investec Women’s Open, International Public Art Festival and the Cape Town Ramadaan Festival among others.  