Groot Constantia is the oldest wine-producing farm in South Africa — continuously producing legendary wine since 1685. Groot Constantia is an important part of World Wine Heritage, a provincial heritage site and an international tourism attraction, located only 20 minutes outside Cape Town City Centre. As a World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Conservation Champion, Groot Constantia maintains efforts to safeguard the environment for future generations.  The Estate’s wine-making team continues to win awards around the globe. One such award-winning wine is Lady of Abundance. Lady of Abundance is a firm favourite among red wine enthusiasts worldwide, epitomising the Estate’s creativity. Essentially, it is a bottled celebration and depiction of each year’s abundant harvest at Groot Constantia. Inspired by the Lady of Abundance statue on the Groot Constantia Manor House gable, this wine pays homage to the abundance of the Estate’s diverse terroir.  Lady of Abundance is a complex, premium red blend that is intensely rich in flavour and its fine tannins promise good ageing potential. This Groot Constantia wine is available on the Estate, in certain restaurants, selected liquor stores, and major retailers.  What to expect at Groot Constantia Exploring the Visitor’s Route Experience is a must-do when visiting Groot Constantia. This self-guided tour follows a specially designed circular route through Groot Constantia’s key attractions: the Manor House, Cloete Cellar, Production Cellar and two restaurants. Stop at the Wine and Gift shop for unique work from talented local South African entrepreneurs, artists, and designers. Enjoy a wine tasting and purchase wine to take home.  Groot Constantia is open seven days a week from 09h00 (Closed Good Friday and Christmas). Cloete Cellar and Production Cellar are open from 10h00 – 17h00, with the last tour at 15h00 and the last tasting at 16h15. The Tasting Room at the entrance of the Estate is open from 09h00 -18h00, with the last tasting at 17h15.  For more information, visit www.grootconstantia.co.za or connect with Groot Constantia via social media on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram @GrootConstantia. To make a reservation at Jonkershuis Restaurant, contact +27 21 794 6255, or reservations@jhuis.co.za To book at Simon’s Restaurant, contact +27 21 794 1143 or email info@simons.co.za