Cape Town and the Western Cape is blessed with a bounty of natural beauty, cultural attractions and sophisticated facilities. It has proven itself to excel in hosting world-class events that draw in audiences and participants from across the globe. Annually the Western Cape plays host to numerous events ranging from conferencing, sport, leisure, business, wine, culinary and lifestyle, and is the meeting place for expos, festivals and other shows. The Western Cape is known for its hospitality and excellent service, making it an ideal place to host an event. Its vibrant and cosmopolitan atmosphere provides the perfect backdrop for any occasion. Being able to attract international events to our shores and provide support to local home-grown events every year, allowing an environment where these show-pieces are able to grow in stature and provide a lasting experience for attendees. Cycling March is cycling month in the Western Cape and Cape Town is the hub from where all the action takes place. The Cape Town Cycle Tour is the flagship road cycling event that takes place in the Mother City on 12 March, while mountain bikers can look forward to the Absa Cape Epic from 19 – 26 March 2023. Wine The 2023 Concours Mondial du Sauvignon will take place from 13-17 March 2023 in Franschhoek. A total of 35 international judges will be hosted in Franschhoek for five days, with wine tasting sessions over three days. Travel The World Travel Market (WTM), part of Africa Travel from 3 – 5 April will see international and pan-African industry professionals connect under one roof. Sport For sports fans, the calendar in April 2023 includes the world’s most scenic race, the Two Oceans Marathon shaping up to be an elite fest, with a stellar field once again lining up on the weekend of Saturday, 15 and Sunday, 16 April 2023 for the ultra and half marathon, respectively. Conferences Conferences secured in Cape Town and the Western Cape include aviation, engineering, entrepreneurship, green economy, investment, medical, manufacturing, travel, veterinary science, as well as the tech sector. “Every visitor is a potential investor. The Cape Convention Bureau looks forward to hosting delegates from around the globe – providing us with the opportunity to showcase the capabilities of our local industries spanning a wide range of sectors,” said Provincial Minister of Finance and Economic Opportunities in the Western Cape, Mireille Wenger. Business events are intrinsically linked to leisure tourism – creating a positive knock-on effect for local hotels, restaurants, and attractions. The economic spin-offs from events in the Western Cape generate a ripple effect of job creation during and after events, and these visitors spend their money locally and have a positive impact on the local economy. It also enriches knowledge in hosting and creates opportunities for some people working on the events to initiate, and grow, their own businesses.