Did you know, you can get married at Benguela Cove Wine Estate, and save on venue hire fees? Couples planning a wedding in 2023 are invited to meet with Megan Lockwood, who has joined Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate as weddings and conference coordinator. Megan is advising on the new range of event facilities and attractively-priced packages at the vineyard estate. She says: “Arranging a wedding or even a large conference can be stressful. But it doesn’t have to be that way. It’s best to start planning and visit venues as soon as possible, even if the event is in the spring or summer of next year. First, decide on your vision for the day. As a Hermanus wine farm, Benguela Cove offers a stunning oceanfront location, as well as the space and flexibility to create a classic or contemporary style for your big day, whatever your vision.” “Whether you want it to be small and simple or major and magnificent, you should decide the kind of vibe that you want from the outset. Then, when planning details like invitations, food and décor, you can make sure they reflect your vision.” The estate offers a variety of locations for daytime and evening weddings. This includes seating for up to 180 guests in the Moody Lagoon restaurant, as well as for 100 people in the Barrel Room for a vineyard theme. The Vinotheque room has seating for 12 guests for more intimate dining. Other choices include a braai and beach-side event, as well as a range of internal and outdoor areas. Couples can discuss their dining preferences with resident chef Annie Badenhorst. She can advise on menu selections, including halal and vegetarian options, and choices from the best South African wines. A further consideration is where to stay the night before and on the day of the wedding itself: “On the estate we have luxurious accommodation for up to 32 people in four oceanside villas, each with a fully-equipped, modern kitchen for self-catering, a pool and braai. So, you could book for both families to ensure everyone is close by on the big day, and turn it into a lovely holiday.” An onsite generator ensures that if there is a power outage, electricity is automatically restored, within 30 seconds, to the whole of the hospitality area, including restaurants and facilities. Guests can book a variety of activities for their stay, such as visiting the Art of Living Exhibition, a pontoon boat trip with wine tasting on the lagoon, dining at the new seafood and oyster bar on the estate, and guided tours of the winery and vineyards. They can also take advantage of the year-round events calendar. Starting in March, there is a salsa dance night every Saturday at 18:00, with live music, cocktails, and food. ‘Bottomless Bubbly, Mimosas, and Live Music’ is also available at the Hermanus restaurant every Saturday and Sunday from 09:30 to 12:00, as well as every public holiday except Christmas Day. There are still a few places left at the Hermanus wine farm for the annual harvest lunch in March. Guests are invited to take part in grape picking in the morning beginning at 10:30, followed by lunch at 12:00 and live music from 13:00 to 16:00. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za/wedding-venue