Cape Cycle Routes allows you to immerse yourself in the heart of the Western Cape with its five routes showcasing the majesty of the province’s regions. There are few things more immersive than cycling through nature, the call of the wide open spaces allowing you to truly experience the majesty of a place. The Cross Cape, Karoo Crossing, Overberg Meander, Cycle Tour 364 and the Cederberg Circuit allows for intrepid adventurers to discover the six regions in the Western Cape like never before.  From the lush greens and wide-open spaces of the Garden Route and Klein Karoo to the awe-inspiring valleys of the, from the majestic mountains and vineyards of the Cape Winelands to the wide open spaces of the Cape Karoo and the Cape West Coast (Weskus), the Mother City and all its splendours, the routes are as diverse and beautiful as the regions they travel through. It’s a true journey of the senses, with plenty of adventures in store for cyclists and explorers alike, and there is no better way to discover the majesty and beauty of Cape Town and the Western Cape. Cycle Tour 364 Cycle Tour 364 takes you over 123.3km through all the trendiest Cape Town hotspots, over Chapman’s Peak to the Cape Point Nature Reserve, and back again. Filled with awe-inspiring views, intense hill climbs and unforgettable adventures. The route mimics that of the iconic Cape Town Cycle Tour. Cross Cape The Cross Cape cycle route takes you over a distance of 742km through four distinct geographical areas of the Cape, each of which offers a multitude of invigorating and unique experiences.  Karoo Crossing The Karoo Crossing takes you on a 358km adventure as you journey through towns each with its unique charm, winding historic mountain passes and semi-desert plateaus. Overberg Meander The Overberg Meander takes you over a distance of 364km through historic towns, passing through the Southern-most point of Africa and with stretches of unspoilt beauty. Cederberg Circuit Cederberg Circuit takes you over 247km through winding historical mountain passes, historic rock art and past crystal clear rivers and luscious nature reserves. For more information visit https://capecycleroutes.co.za