AFRICANX runners are invited to join the Stellies Shake Out Crew for a fun +-18km AFRICANX Training Run 1 that will start at 07:00 at the Ou Landbousaal (Stellenbosch) on Saturday 21 January 2023. “The goal of the AFRICANX Training Runs is twofold,” confirms Michael Meyer, Managing Director of Stillwater Sports and Founder of the AFRICANX TRAILRUN. “Firstly, we’d like to help entrants prepare for South Africa’s premier three-day stage race, the AFRICANX TRAILRUN, that will take place in March and secondly, we’d like entrants to meet the runners who they’ll share the trails and race village with at the 13th annual AFRICANX TRAILRUN. It’ll be like a trail runner reunion when they toe the line for the start of Stage One in March.” “This year we are very excited to team up with the crew from Stellies Shake Out, who will be spearheading the first of the AFRICANX Training Runs in the Western Cape,” continues Meyer. “The first training run will take place this coming Saturday and will consist of a good combination of climbs, gravel jeep track, technical single track, flowing single track and fast jeep tracks. The Stellies Shake Out Crew will have various group leaders that will run at different speed, which will allow trail runners to join the group that best suits their capabilities. We can’t wait to get the new year started on the trails and would like to invite all runners (trail and road) to join us for a morning of spectacular trail running paired with magnificent views and great company. Each runner will receive a complimentary coffee before the run and ice-cold refreshments after the run compliments of event partners Coca Cola Peninsula Beverages.” Established in 2019, Stellies Shake Out is a social running crew that is based in the Winelands. What started out as a handful of like-minded runners getting together once a week for a social trail run on the trails surrounding Coetzenberg, Stellies Shake Out has grown in popularity with a minimum of 60 to 70 runners eagerly joining the weekly Thursday evening runs. “The AFRICANX TRAILRUN sees likeminded runners from across the country come together for a fun-filled weekend of trail running, eating, laughing and making memories,” says Julian Veermeer, Chairman of Stellies Shake Out. “In addition to signing up fifteen teams to take on the 2023 event, the Stellies Shake Out Crew is excited to be leading a Stellenbosch AFRICANX Training Run in the lead up to the event. If you aren’t familiar with Stellenbosch, we will introduce you to some of the best trails that are on offer. We can’t wait to welcome trail runners of all fitness levels and expertise to the AFRICANX Training Run 1 on Saturday 21 January. Look forward to enjoying a fun, care-free morning running socially with likeminded individuals. Be sure to follow Stellies Shake Out on Instagram to keep up to date with our weekly runs.” 