Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate has opened a new oyster and seafood bar and is celebrating winning three 5-star awards and ten 4.5-star awards in the coveted Platter’s 2023 South Africa Wine Guide. Vinography Cabernet Sauvignon 2019 was named a 5-star winner for the Hermanus wine farm, while Vinography Petit Verdot 2020 and Vinography Sémillon Sauvignon Blanc 2021 achieved ‘Best in Class’ in their varietal categories for South African wines. Visitors to the residential and hospitality estate can now enjoy these and other award-winning wines at the new oyster and seafood bar and restaurant, which resident chef Annie Badenhorst oversees. It is open seven days a week in the summer, from 10 am to 8 pm, and offers stunning views across the serene lagoon, which is separated from the Atlantic Ocean by a narrow sandbar. The menu features large west coast oysters served on ice with lemon and red onion mignonette, says Annie: “The superior taste of Saldanha oysters is due to the abundant plankton food supply in the bay, which imparts a subtly sweet, nutty nuance to the familiar salty-sea oyster eating experience”. Three salmon dishes are on the menu: smoked and gravlax salmon; salmon tartare with chopped capers, red onion gherkins and homemade mayonnaise; and salmon and noodle salad. As an alternative to fish, there is potted duck with num num jam: a whole confit duck pulled and set with pistachio and pink peppercorns, served with toasted ciabatta and num num jam – a sweet-tasting red fruit native to South Africa’s coastal regions. “Annie wanted the oyster bar to be light and fresh as the latest addition to the Hermanus restaurant scene and a new attraction for guests staying in the luxury oceanfront villas at Benguela Cove that are now available for renting. From wine tastings and superb food at Moody Lagoon restaurant, to watersports and art and music events, the estate offers a great staycation and international tourist destination,” says Penny Streeter OBE, the estate developer. The new edition of Platter’s by Diners Club Wine Guide was launched in Stellenbosch on November 17th. It is available in hardcover and digital formats and lists over 900 South African producers, merchants, and brands, as well as approximately 8,000 locally produced wines. The Platter’s accolades for Benguela Cove confirm the special nature of the wine farm’s unique terroir and coastal setting, says Penny. It is located in the UNESCO-designated Kogelberg Biosphere, at the lowest elevation, and with the world’s longest seaboard of any vineyard. The Platter’s prizes come on the heels of three double golds in the Veritas Wine Awards, a platinum award for its Chardonnay in the Michelangelo Wine and Spirits Competition, and best Semillon and best single vineyard wine accolades in the Novare SA Terroir Awards. For more information visit www.benguelacove.co.za