The Western Cape based Fairtree Imperial Cannondale Racing Team is not only an accomplished mountain biking team, but are rising stars on the global stage, with some impressive wins both locally and internationally over the past two years. “The team includes 16 men and 2 women, all from disadvantaged backgrounds,” says Chris Norton, Team Manager of the Fairtree Imperial Cannondale Racing Team. “Despite facing many adversities, their incredible growth over the past few years leaves no doubt that they are a positive example of how sport has the power to unite communities and change individual circumstances, as it has done with these incredible riders – thanks to the people that have come together to give them the opportunities they deserve, and also to their commitment and dedication to the sport of cycling.” Imperial, a DP World Company, began its sponsorship of the team in 2021, which includes the use of a vehicle to transport the team, new cycling kits, as well as funding towards team housing and living expenses. The riders haven grown from strength to strength during this time, with team members Luyanda Thobigunya and Lorenzo le Roux winning the esteemed FNB Wine2Wales in 2021, as well as the Exxaro category of the Absa Cape Epic that year, finishing 30th in the overall race. This team is excelling at cycling and is also helping create a culture of healthy living by using the discipline of cycling to address both sporting and social challenges. They also earn an income as accredited tour guides with the Western Cape government – offering guiding to individuals, corporates and tourists, using local restaurant Casa Cerveza in Stellenbosch as their base. “It is also encouraging to see team members paying their success forward in their communities,” says Norton. “It was heart-warming to see Luyanda gift his team member, Lorenzo, his share of a bursary they had both won in 2019 so that Lorenzo’s twin daughters could start the 2020 school year together. He donated the same bursary prize to his sister’s child after winning it again in 2021.”