Nestled between the quaint town of Somerset West and Strand, you will find South Africa’s longest sculpture gallery in a Shopping Mall. The Somerset Mall Art Mile showcases sculptures from Marco Olivier’s collection throughout the mall, adding an element of surprise to your shopping experience, says Mel Jeffries, Marketing Manager for Somerset Mall. This strategic public art partnership with Marco Olivier will see the 69, 000sqm Somerset Mall being the first retail property to partner with a local artist. Somerset Mall has original pieces from Marco Olivier’s collection on display throughout the mall walkways, including new releases and never seen before sculptures. “The strategic collaboration with a locally renowned international artist is ideal and will play a vital role in enhancing our customer experience. Housing the art pieces allow customers to enjoy public art while shopping in a relaxed, mindful environment. Creating the ideal shopping experience plays an import part of the mall’s repositioning strategy” explained Mandy Bellamy, General Manager for Somerset Mall. “The art can be found throughout the mall with key sculptures such as Surrender Man, Dancing in the Moonlight, The Warriors, and Call Me Dreamer (Faces) to mention a few, are positioned strategically in the main exhibition courts.  Mindfulness is part of our everyday customer experience in Somerset Mall and by creating pause areas around the sculptures allows for our guests to tap out from their daily routine and a take a moment to re-energize,” says Mandy Bellamy. Whether you are visiting to indulge in some leisurely me time, to tick off the essentials on your grocery list, or enjoying some quality time with your family; these majestic sculptures must be experienced when in Somerset Mall.  Somerset Mall is open from 09:00 to 19:00 Monday to Saturday and 9:00 to 17:00 on Sunday and Public Holidays. For more information, please visit www.somersetmallartmile.com and www.somersetmall.co.za To purchase art pieces, please contact Juan: +27 79 681 9562 or Mia: +27 61 990 1791