The City’s Identikidz programme which seeks to prevent children and parents from being separated on busy beaches. Identikidz has tagged more than 90 000 children at participating beaches since its launch in mid-December, reuniting around 370 children with their families. A further 13 children were placed in the care of the Provincial Department of Social Development when night fell and their families could still not be reached. A staggering 65% of reunions happened over the New Year’s long weekend. The City further ensured the availability of 21 public swimming pools despite the national chlorine shortages, from Sea Point to Khayelitsha. Lifeguard deployments at these facilities helped to ensure there were no fatal drownings recorded this festive season. Lifeguards Lifeguards were also deployed to 29 beaches, tidal pools, and coastline stretches, assisted by Western Province Lifesaving, City enforcement services, the NSRI and the City’s Beach Buddies, among others. A total of nine fatal drownings have been recorded since September 2022. City law enforcement agencies have been hard at work maintaining order and upholding by-laws to ensure public places are safer for all. Alcohol confiscations on beaches increased year-on-year, with over 18 500 bottles and 6700 litres of alcohol from 1 Dec 2022 – 2 Jan 2023, up from 4 800 litres last season. Police In total, more than 4 000 uniformed staff such as Metro Police, lifeguards, Law Enforcement, Traffic officers and firefighters helped to ensure the wellbeing of residents and tourists. Across the City, enforcement agencies made 1291 arrests and 33 guns off our streets, with 22 of these guns confiscated by officers linked to the Law Enforcement Advancement Programme (LEAP) to expand safety resources in crime hotspots, together with the Western Cape Government. The City’s Disaster Risk Management Centre played a pivotal role in coordinating the overall response to high stages of load-shedding experienced in December, as well as the City’s multi-agency Festive Season Coordinating Committee. A total of 415 staff members and DRMC volunteers were deployed to beaches and major events including sporting events, festivals and the Tweede Nuwejaar and Cape Malay road marches.