XTERRA SA returns to the iconic Elgin valley with trails curated by the Caveman, seven times world champion Conrad Stoltz.  With 53 wins and 4 World Championships under his belt, XTERRA’s most decorated athlete is now the driving force behind the first stop of the 2023 World Tour – XTERRA South Africa. “I got involved in event organizing because I’m passionate about XTERRA and want other people to enjoy the sport and its people like I did,” says Conrad Stolz. XTERRA SA will take place on 21 and 22 January 2023 at the Grabouw Country Club. The races will include the Trail Half Marathon, Trail Runs, Full distance Triathlon, Sprint Triathlon, Junior Triathlon and Kids race. Kids Race A fun kids race for all levels to enjoy. The focus is fun! Kids get to try out each stage of the triathlon experience in a fun and safe environment. The 6-8 years do a 30m splash, 600m bike and 450m run. The 9-11 years do a 50m swim, 2K bike and 1K run. XTERRA Sprint The XTERRA Sprint is aimed at newcomers to the sport who typically aren’t as fit or skilled and the course is meant to welcome newbies to off-road racing.  The bike is mostly flat gravel road with some mild but fun single track in the latter stages. This winter, I built a new piece of flowy single track through dense woods which will be spectacular.  The run is meant to be fun – mostly flat with scenic single track, but with a technical “Swamble” section down the mountain stream to keep the adventure real and athletes cool in the summer heat. XTERRA Full The XTERRA Full is the real deal. It features about 80% single track through the unique Grabouw sandstone landscape. This past winter we (Stoltz Trails) built four new trails in the area, funded by local partners. The goal is for everyone to have a good time, so I made the infamous Rock Garden less difficult and more flowy. I know, those who know the Caveman from racing days will find it hard to believe that I made something easier, but it’s best for all. “We’re aiming for a festival weekend atmosphere. Music, interesting food trucks, a beer tent, local wine tastings, kids play area and of course – glamping! In my racing days, I was known for being the last one to leave because I love socializing with fellow athletes afterwards. That’s why I’m excited about the glamping! Luxury camping right next to the beautiful dam, where you sleep on a cot under white linen with warm showers. We did it ourselves in Grabouw last year and had such an amazing time. We made a bonfire, we had a braai (BBQ), someone brought a guitar and people from all walks of life became friends. And race morning you just roll out of your tent and you’re already there. Come sit around the fire with the Caveman!” 