CapeNature has partnered with Adventure Zone to introduce an exciting new way to enjoy the views from Robberg in Plettenberg Bay: abseiling the cliffs of the iconic nature reserve, national monument and World Heritage Site. Robberg Nature Reserve in Plettenberg Bay is best known for panoramic views across the bay to the Tsitsikamma Mountains and open ocean with dramatic cliffs, caves, stretches of sandy beach, and the vibrant colony of Cape fur seals. It’s a popular destination for nature lovers, hikers and trail runners with sightings of whales, seals, dolphins and even sharks not uncommon. To add to its already-plentiful attractions, CapeNature – curators of the nature reserve – has partnered with South African adventure company Adventure Zone to bring an all-new dimension to Robberg: an extremely thrilling and breathtaking abseil down the cliffs of Robberg. Abseiling, or rappelling as it is called by many mountaineers, is sliding down a rope under controlled conditions with an opportunity to pause and immerse yourself in the surroundings as you descend. The term comes from the German word “abseilen,” which translates as “top rope down.” This is Adventure Zone’s third and newest site in South Africa, and they are very excited about Plett’s newest adventure offering: “This is an activity not to be missed, this is absolutely your next bucket list activity. Our highly trained and qualified guides will make sure you not only enjoy your activity but feel safe and secure at all times.” The 12-storey, 35 m abseil will offer breathtaking views across Robberg to The Island, along the coastline and beyond to provide never-before-seen angles of the iconic peninsula. Additionally, Robberg, home to Nelson Bay Cave and part of the Cradle of Human Culture Route, provides a fascinating insight into the past with rocks dating back 120 million years with evidence of Middle and Later Stone Age inhabitation found along the peninsula. The abseil will provide a unique look at these ancient rock formations.