There is no doubt that Steven Spielberg is one of the most successful filmmakers in history. Through his role in developing, directing, and driving the special effects of many of the biggest blockbusters in movie history, including Jaws, Raiders of the Lost Ark, E.T., Saving Private Ryan, Jurassic Park, Indiana Jones series and Schindler’s List, to name a few. Spielberg changed the way movies are made and left an indelible mark on popular culture.
His biography traces his rise from shooting films as a shy young boy with the family’s 8 mm camera to his first unpaid job at Universal Studios, to the rise of DreamWorks, the studio Spielberg founded and quickly turned into a filmmaking powerhouse. “You shouldn’t dream your film, you should make it”, Spielberg quoted. Why? Because we believe success leaves clues. We believe every story possesses hidden insights that can teach us, guide us, and benefit us in unimaginable ways. If you’re ready to get inspired, and learn a thing or two about success, then let’s dive into Steven Spielberg’s Story of achievement. Spielberg’s father was a qualified electrical engineer and his mother was a concert pianist. The family moved around a lot when Spielberg was growing up, as his father took various jobs in different cities. This led to Spielberg often feeling like an outsider. He was regularly bullied as a child because he was unable to keep up with the pace of the other kids his age. He also had the learning disability dyslexia, which also invited criticism and judgement from his teachers. In an effort to combat this, Spielberg took refuge in movies. He became obsessed with them, and would often go to the cinema multiple times a week. This is where he developed his love of storytelling. He dreamed of being a movie director from childhood. He created his first short film at the age of 12 and continued to make movies throughout his teenage years – during this time his dreams never subsided. How Spielberg broke into Universal Studios is a legend in the movie industry. He took the Universal Studios Tour to get an inside look at the movie business. Steven sneaked off the tram and hid between two sound stages until the tour ended. When he left at the end of the day, he made a point of saying a few words to the guard at the gate. For three months he passed the guard daily, neatly dressed in a suit, carrying a briefcase, letting the guard believe he was one of the students with a summer job at the studio. He made a point of speaking and befriending directors, writers, and editors. He even moved into a vacant office. Furthermore, he also made it his business to get to know the head of production of the studio’s television arm, Sid Sheinberg, who gave him a contract with the studio. Finally, in 1974, Steven Spielberg had an opportunity to work on his first theater-released film, “The Sugarland Express”. This caught the attention of The Hollywood Reporter and put his name on the map. This led to an offer to direct “Jaws”, a blockbuster film that would become one of the highest-grossing films of all time and establish Spielberg as a Hollywood heavyweight. “E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial”, released in 1982, was another one of Spielberg’s more personal works. Spielberg is now one of the most successful and well-respected directors in Hollywood. His films have grossed billions of dollars and have won numerous awards. He is truly a Hollywood legend and is still directing films to this very day. He believes that by giving back, he can inspire young people to do the same incredible things that he has achieved. Furthermore, he once said, “The past may dictate who we are, but we get to determine what we become.” He reminds us that it is never too late to pursue our dreams and that by giving back, we can make a difference in the lives of others. With that said, we hope this Steven Spielberg Success Story has inspired you to shoot for the stars, and believe that you too can accomplish great things.