Global leaders and experts will share strategic insights on how policy, investment and innovation can be combined to support the development of a green economy in Africa. The 3-day deal-making platform will showcase investible African projects in both closed and open deal making environments. Connecting stakeholders to move the sector forward will be core to the objective of the Africa’s Green Economy Summit, taking place from 22–24 February 2023 at the Century City Conference Centre. Expert and keynote speakers on the programme are from South Africa, Kenya, Rwanda, Côte d’Ivoire and the DRC. As a platform, Africa’s Green Economy Summit will bring together investors, developers and governments, highlighting investment prospects that exist in the fields of green hydrogen, EVs and hybrid vehicles, energy storage, solar, hydro and wind energy, infrastructure development, urban sustainability as well as manufacturing. The interactive gathering will be followed by further networking during an off-site day of experiential activities in true Cape Town style. “One of GreenCape’s current projects is attracting electric vehicle manufacturing investment and to create a greenfield electric vehicle manufacturing industry in the Western Cape. Traditionally, the Western Cape has not had an automotive manufacturing industry compared to Gauteng, the Eastern Cape and KZN. Therefore, we see the transition to electric vehicles as a means of creating this new industry and stimulating much-needed jobs and investments in the green economy in the Western Cape,” says Prian Reddy, from GreenCape – a green economy development agency in the Western Cape. “The green economy isn’t a thing. It is the thing, right? It’s everything. The economy as a whole is making a shift towards green. You cannot produce things in an environmentally unfriendly manner anymore because the consumer just does not want to consume those things. It is embedded in everyday business; the way people just do business,” Jarrod Lyons, business development and marketing at the Atlantis SEZ (Special Economic Zone) in Cape Town, a developer of industrial property that houses green technology manufacturing.
Africa’s Green Economy Summit is part of the E-Fest Cape Town that will culminate in the Formula E 2023 Cape Town E-Prix race in the same week on 25 February 2023, hosted for the first time in Africa.