One of the world’s most renowned charity wine auctions, The Cape Wine Auction, in partnership with Mastercard, is taking place on Saturday, February 18, at the luxurious Hazendal Wine Estate in Stellenbosch. Regarded as one of the most significant international wine charity auctions, and one which unites the industry around a single goal of raising money for education, The Cape Wine Auction is a much sought-after ticket on the South African social events calendar. Since its inception in 2014, the annual auction has created a benchmark in philanthropy, raising more than R117 million, with 100 percent of proceeds going to strategically elected beneficiaries, all of whom are leaders within the education landscape. These beneficiaries form part of a unique model of collaboration and best-practice, sharing to accelerate impact and efficiency. A board of trustees, with extensive corporate, philanthropic and entrepreneurial experience, work with a full-time trust facilitator to strategically monitor impact and needs. Raymond Ndlovu, Chairman of The Cape Wine Auction Trust said, “We are thrilled that the Cape Wine Auction will be celebrating it’s 10th anniversary this year, and we are determined to set record bidding amounts for our once-in-a-lifetime lots, thus continuing to help children in need. “Thanks to the generosity of past attendees, donors and sponsors, thousands of children have had access to hot meals, caring teachers, emotional support and the courage to dream. Their extraordinary kindness has helped us deliver some of the best quality auction lots from around the world, which in turn has generated funds for where it matters most: edification through education,” he added. Gabriel Swanepoel, Country Manager, Mastercard Southern Africa says, “At Mastercard, we recognise the value of supporting causes that contribute towards the wellbeing and benefit of communities. “Over the past few years, we have made it our mission to create a world beyond cash where everyone thrives and this is evident through our long history of supporting initiatives not only through our own contributions but by empowering people to uplift and support the charities that they feel strongly about. “This is why we are proud to partner with The Cape Wine Auction once again, to bring people an extraordinary experience that not only connects them to their passions but also enables them to give back when it matters most .” The Cape Wine Auction lots are unique experiences that are not available for purchase and never repeated. They include rare wines, bespoke international adventures, stays in world-class accommodations and access to the inner sanctum of the South African wine industry. “These opportunities come along once, for one auction only and never again, so what you bid for is truly exclusive and rare” says Darielle Robertson, Cape Wine Auction director. Some of the exciting lots confirmed for this year’s catalogue include: More exceptional lots are being added to the catalogue daily for what promises to be one of the biggest and best Cape Wine Auction events ever!