The Cape Wine Auction 2023, in partnership with Mastercard, raised close to R8 million for charity at this year’s event, and has now accumulated over R125 million since the first auction took place in 2014. This year’s auction was held at the magnificent Hazendal Wine Estate in Stellenbosch on Saturday, February 18, with guests bidding competitively, but generously, for a collection of once-in-a-lifetime experiences and unique collector’s items. Four of the evening’s most sought after lots made up almost half of the total amount raised! Lot 19, a three-night getaway for eight people staying at the lavish &Beyond Benguerra Island in the Bazaruto Archipelago, was sold twice each time for R1 million, while Lot No 20, an ultra-luxurious safari experience for eight people at the award-winning Cheetah Plains in the Sabi Sand Nature Reserve, also went for R1 million. Another fiercely-contested lot was Lot 21, a five day stay in Paris and two golden seat tickets to the Rugby World Cup final, courtesy of Mastercard, were sold for R600,000. The Gift of the Giving Lots also raised a significant amount of money. These are essentially straight-forward donations to charitable causes with no prize/holiday/experience in return and consist of five R10 000 donations, five R25 000 donations, five R50 000 donations and one donation of R100 000, a total of R475,000. The Cape Wine Auction is regarded as one of the most significant international wine charity auctions ever conceived, uniting the industry around a single goal of raising money for education. In its 10-year history, the auction has raised over R125 million, with 100 percent of the proceeds managed by The Cape Wine Auction Trust and distributed amongst carefully selected beneficiaries. Raymond Ndlovu, Chairman of The Cape Wine Auction Trust, said: “We are absolutely thrilled with this year’s results, especially given the tough economic times we are going through. The monies raised means the Trust can continue its invaluable work with our beneficiaries, all of whom are dedicated to improving the education and lives of children in the Cape winelands. “A big thank you to all our partners, especially Mastercard, as well as to those who donated the fabulous lots and, of course, to those who bid so generously for them,” he added. “We are delighted by the response to this year’s auction, which is testament to the importance of doing well by doing good. Through platforms such as the Cape Wine Auction, we have been able to further make a tangible difference in the lives of those who need it the most. We are proud to be associated with such an esteemed initiative, which has once again afforded us an opportunity to continue being a force for good,” said Gabriel Swanepoel, Country Manager at Mastercard Southern Africa. “Going forward, we need to continue uniting and standing together to continue to come up with innovative and meaningful solutions that are relevant for today and the future,” Swanepoel concluded.