Cape Town Mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis launched a drive to position Cape Town as the ‘Gateway to Antarctica’ by taking the world’s most extraordinary day-trip from the Mother City to the remote continent on Monday. The Mayor was joined by Alderman James Vos, Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Opportunities. Cape Town is well-placed to reap the economic benefits of being an Antarctic gateway city, with a 5-hour direct flight across the Southern Ocean touching down in the 24-hour Antarctic daytime on Wolf’s Fang runway in Queen Maud Land. Antarctic tourism is growing rapidly, with more and more tourists making the trip to this truly unique destination. At the moment, many tourists depart from elsewhere – but Cape Town is undoubtedly the best place to come before heading to Antarctica. Flights are shared between visitors and the scientific community, reducing environmental impact and supplying logistical support for scientists at research bases operated by several countries, including South Africa. ‘It was a privilege to witness the Antarctic’s pristine wilderness first-hand via a short flight from Cape Town today. We want more people to choose our city as their preferred gateway to reach international scientific bases, or to experience the continent’s unique sustainable tourism offering. We are launching a new destination marketing campaign with a clear message – Cape Town is the best place to come before you head way down South. Where else can you go from sun and beautiful beaches to Antarctica in just 5 hours? ‘It was also great to learn that so much of the accommodation materials, and much of the equipment and supplies for Antarctica, are made right in Cape Town. Visiting the world’s remote seventh continent is the closest anyone will come to experiencing life on another planet. Except this is our planet, and the only one we’ve got. Sustainable tourism holds not only economic and job creation benefits for our city as a gateway, but also enhances the viability of scientific research on the continent,’ said Mayor Hill-Lewis. Cape Town is one of five cities on the rim of the Southern Ocean through which nearly all cargo and personnel bound for Antarctica pass. From west to east, they are Punta Arenas, Chile; Ushuaia, Argentina; Cape Town, South Africa; Hobart, Australia; and Christchurch, New Zealand.