The world of sensory reality is here, and excitingly, the very first wellness sensory reality device has just arrived in South Africa and will be showcased at the iconic V&A Waterfront in Cape Town. “Sensory reality allows for a range of multi-sensory real-life and fantasy-based experiences to be replicated in superb detail, with the body’s five senses activated simultaneously. Multi-sensory digitisation of experiences will help ‘bridge the gap’ between reality and simulation,” explains Fred Galstaun, director of Sensiks, the developers of the range of Sensiks Sensory Reality Pods who are based in the Netherlands. The U.WELL x Sensiks Express Wellness Pod provides a safe space to calm down both mind and body, with soothing experiences that involve synchronised visuals, audio, fragrances, airflow, heat fluctuations, haptics, and vibrations. Over 2000 therapeutic multi-sensory reality experiences are available for relaxation, burnout prevention, anxiety reduction, mindfulness, guided meditation, pain relief, education, and entertainment. Customised content can also be created. The emotional state of users can be assessed and directed via interactive biofeedback sensors that measure and align biometrics such as heart rate, HRV, GSR, respiration facial expressions and more. Sensory reality pods have been shown to have a significant positive impact in the treatment of mental health disorders, stress reduction and burnout prevention, PTSD, addiction, anxiety, neo natal illnesses, muscular skeletal disorders and more. The use of cognitive distraction as a pain and anxiety management strategy is well tested and proven. Being immersed in the sensory reality provided by the pod offers distraction from physical and mental adversities. Sensory reality in the healthcare field is the future – and, together with virtual and augmented reality, is set to become a part of our everyday lives. The vanguard U.WELL x Sensiks Express Wellness Pod that has recently arrived in South Africa is now available to the public at a pop-up location in the V&A Waterfront until 31 May 2023.