A ride through the Western Cape is a cycling journey like no other, covering some of the most diverse flora and fauna on the planet – abundant with tarmac roads, gravel roads, single tracks, switchbacks and jeep tracks to suit everyone from the leisure cyclist to the technical rider. There’s never been more of an excuse to swap the car for your own bicycle. The Cape Cycle Routes have been designed to put the Western Cape on the map, not just as a premier tourist destination, but as Africa’s top cycling destination. The routes are designed to showcase small towns and attractions across the province.  The Cape Cycle Routes include: The Cross Cape, Cycle Tour 364, Cederberg Circuit, Overberg Meander and the Karoo Crossing. Cross Cape The Cross Cape cycle route takes you over a distance of 742km through four distinct geographical areas of the Cape, each of which offers a multitude of invigorating and unique experiences. Route – Garden Route: Plettenberg Bay to Knysna, Knysna to George. Klein Karoo: George to Oudtshoorn, Swartberg Mountains: Oudtshoorn to Calitzdorp, Calitzdorp to Van Wyksdorp, Van Wyksdorp to Cape Overberg: Riversdale, Swellendam to Riviersonderend, Riviersonderend to Greyton, Greyton to Franschhoek. Cape Winelands: Franschhoek to Stellenbosch.  Cycle Tour 364 Cycle Tour 364 takes you over 123.3km through all the trendiest Cape Town hotspots, over Chapman’s Peak to the Cape Point Nature Reserve, and back again. Filled with awe-inspiring views, intense hill climbs and unforgettable adventures. Route – V & A Waterfront to Hout Bay, Hout Bay to Brakkekloof, Brakkekloof to Cape Point Gate and back to the V & A Waterfront. Cederberg Circuit The Cederberg Circuit takes you over 247km through winding historical mountain passes, past crystal-clear rivers and luscious nature reserves. Route – Citrusdal to Algeria, Uitkyk Pass to Mount Ceder, Mount Ceder to Op die Berg, Op die Berg to Citrusdal.  Overberg Meander The Overberg Meander takes you over a distance of 364km through historic towns, passing through the Southern-most point of Africa and with stretches of unspoilt beauty.
Route – Swellendam to L’Agulhas, L’Agulhas to Napier, Napier to Tesselaarsdal, Tesselaarsdal to Elgin Valley. Karoo Crossing The Karoo Crossing takes you on a 358km adventure as you journey through towns each with its unique charm, winding historic mountain passes and semi-desert plateaus. Route – Garden Route: Knysna to De Vlugt, De Vlugt to Buffelsdrif road. Klein Karoo: Buffelsdrif road to De Rust. Cape Karoo: De Rust to Prince Albert, Prince Albert to Matjiesrivier. Swartberg Mountains: Matjiesrivier to Calitzdorp. For more information visit www.capecycleroutes.co.za