The Beach Hut Trust is a collaboration between public and private organisations in conjunction with the City of Cape Town to create a program to protect, preserve and promote Cape Town’s most iconic structures – The Beach Huts. Started in 2020, the Beach Hut Trust was formed as a collaboration between private residents, local businesses and city representatives to establish a group to look after the Beach Huts in Muizenberg and surrounds that have been falling into disrepair. The trust aims to create social and economic opportunity for the local community through the ‘Save Our Beach Hut’ campaign and restore and maintain these iconic structures for many years to come. The Beach Hut Trust recently partnered with local pro-surfer Danielle Powis. As Beach Hut ambassador, Danielle will help to preserve, protect and promote the legacy of the historical beach huts. Why Danielle loves the Beach Huts “I am honoured to partner with the Beach Hut Trust. Muizenberg is where my surfing career began, and the huts hold so many special childhood memories.” “When I was 10, after catching my first wave at Muizenberg beach. I stood up on my first wave and felt great excitement, but terrible ankle pain. When I looked down, a bluebottle had wrapped around me, and I was rushed to the hospital. I was desperate to get back into the water. Surfing was one of the few things that reminded me of my father, who passed away when I was only 4. He was a huge ocean lover (even though he couldn’t swim). My mom shared how he used to dunk me in the ocean at two days old, as he knew that was where I belonged,” says Danielle. Danielle turned Pro in 2022 when she represented South Africa at the ISA World Surfing Games in California and received the award for the Wildcard spot in the Ballito Pro Challenger Series in 2022. Danielle will participate with the  in the 2023 International Surfing Association World Surfing Games this year. “I look forward to helping preserve, protect and promote the iconic huts for more families to enjoy,” Danielle concludes.