The ICC Women’s T20 World Cup, running from 10 – 26 February 2023, kicks off on Friday, 10 February with the opening at Newlands Cricket Ground. Cape Town is one of three host cities for 15 days of world class cricket action. Cape Town is bracing for a weekend of exciting T20 cricket action when the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup kicks off this Friday 10 February 2023. Host nation South Africa will play the opening game against Sri Lanka at Newlands Cricket Ground from 19:00. Before the team take to the field, local musical acts including Goodluck, DBN Gogo, Rouge and Maphorisa will be on hand to entertain the crowd. The opening fixture is the first of 12 matches to be played at Newlands Cricket Ground for the biennial tournament. Other games will be played in Gqeberha and Paarl. On Sunday, India and Pakistan will reignite one of the greatest cricket rivalries at Newlands at 15:00 for the second game of the tournament played in Cape Town. Sri Lanka and Bangladesh will close out Sunday’s double header at 19:00. The rest of the fixtures for Cape Town are as follows: Cape Town will also host the two semifinals on Thursday 23 February and Friday 24 February 2023. The final will be played on Sunday 26 February 2023. All knockout games start at 15:00. Tickets for the group stage games are available https://bit.ly/3Ib5h47  from as little as R30 while the knockout tickets start at R50. ‘We are proud to be associated with such a  world class and prestigious sporting event and would like to encourage visitors and residents to buy tickets and support the event at Newlands Cricket Ground.  We wish all of the teams the very best of luck as the competition gets underway, and we hope that young and old will step out to the stadium to support them as they vie for top honours,’  said the City’s Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security Alderman JP Smith. The City of Cape Town’s services Metro Police, Law enforcement, Disaster Risk Management, Traffic services will be deployed at all Newlands Cricket Ground games to ensure event safety and assist with traffic flow management. Fans, residents and motorists are reminded that Campground Road will be closed from the corner of Campground road and Mariendahl road to Palmyra Road between 12:00 and 00:00. Public parking is available at Westerford High School on Newlands Main Road, Groote Schuur Primary School on Campground Road and at Groote Schuur High School on Palmyra Road. A designated Uber Drop & Go area will be made available close to the stadium. Gates for the opening match open at 16:00