Visitors to Benguela Cove Lagoon Wine Estate can now enjoy a salsa dance night every Saturday from 4th March with live music, cocktails and dinner. The El Rito band, which recently performed with Andrew Young in concert, will be playing contemporary Latin music at the Moody Lagoon restaurant. The winery venue features à la carte dining, including options of cheese and meat boards and fresh oysters. The elevated position offers guests delightful views across the lagoon where the estate is situated, separated from the Atlantic Ocean by a narrow sandbar. The estate developer, Penny Streeter OBE, says: “Our new seafood and oyster bar is already a great success, open seven days a week in the summer from 10 am to 8 pm. We are constantly expanding the range of attractions and events for visitors staying in the estate’s luxury seaside villas, as well as to our friends in the Hermanus community and beyond.” The 2023 events calendar also includes salsa dance lessons with South Africa’s former Latin American dance champion, Jenielle Solomons, who manages the tasting room at the Hermanus wine farm. The salsa dance academy offers a course of eight weekly Latin dance sessions from 6 pm. Each evening, there will be a range of hospitality options that include half-price offers on cocktails and wine specials. The salsa dance academy kicks off with a special Valentine’s Day event on Tuesday, 14th February, from 7 pm to 10 pm, when tickets will include a glass of wine and a group salsa dance class, with prizes for the best-dressed dancers. On Valentine’s Day, there will also be gourmet picnics and pontoon cruises aboard the Lady Bonnie in the afternoon and again at sunset. The picnic for two includes a bottle of Lighthouse Collection Sauvignon Blanc at, R1200 per couple. On Saturday, 25th February at 5 pm, Cloud 9 will be rocking the lagoon as the band takes visitors on a musical journey through the ages, including classics by the Beatles, the Rolling Stones and other favourites. The estate’s Airstream caravans will be open throughout the show, serving hot dogs, burgers and chips, platters, wine, beer and cold soft drinks. The programme also includes an art retreat led by Betzy Geldenhuys. Visitors can benefit from her 35 years of experience to master the fundamentals of painting and create their own works of art to take home. The retreats take place on 28th and 29 August 2023 from 11 am to 4 pm, priced at R1700. On Sunday, 26th March the TINMAN starts at Benguela Cove, the oldest triathlon series currently running in South Africa, which started in 1999. It is a grassroots development series, offering races for adults and children from 8 years old and upward, with all competitors running together in five different events on race day. Visitors are advised to check the Benguela Cove website as new events are added to the programme throughout the year www.benguelacove.co.za